President Joe Biden says the United
States will work with Israel to prevent
civilian deaths in Gaza the US president
is paying a solidarity visit to Israel
in the aftermath of the Hamas Terror
attacks his trip is aimed at keeping the
conflict from spiraling into a wider
regional conflict Biden also reiterated
us commitment to Israel after meeting
with prime minister n Netanyahu and his
War cabinets let's take a listen and I
want you to know you're not alone
You are not
alone as I emphasized earlier we will
continue to have Israel's back as you
work to defend your people we'll
continue to work with you and partners
across the region to prevent more
tragedy to innocent
civilians Israel's prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu says Israel is trying
to ensure that innocent people are not
caught up in the
conflict as we proceed on this War
Israel will do everything it can to keep
civilians out of Harm's Way we have
asked them and we'll continue to ask
them to move to safer areas we'll
continue to work with you Mr
President to assure that the minimal
requirements are met and we continue to
work together to get our hostages
out this President the road to Victory
will be long and hard but United in
purpose and with a deep sense of justice
and the unbreakable Spirit of our
soldiers and Our People Israel will
prevail and the two leaders were
speaking after a nighttime blast at a
Gaza Hospital gaza's Hamas ran Health
Ministry now says 471 people were killed
in the explosion which it called an
Israeli Massacre Israel says evidence
shows a rocket misfired by Palestinian
militants is responsible both claims
have not been independently confirmed
this is where the sick are supposed to
be
healed instead the Ali Arab Hospital in
Gaza City has become the latest casualty
in a conflict that's costing so many
lives hundreds died in this
attack we were just sitting here and
suddenly there was an explosion
the glass shattered on us many people
were
killed many of those caught up in the
blast were Palestinians who'd been
seeking
Refuge this place was a safe haven for
women and children who fled Israeli
shelling near the
hospital they saw this place as a refuge
for them to feel safe and
secure there was no advanced warning
before targeting the
hospital there were more than 3,000
people here for whom this place was a
safe heaven the terrorist group Hamas
which rules Gaza blamed Israel for the
attack anti-israel protests have been
held across the Palestinian territories
including in the city of rale in the
West
Bank no craters these are
but the Israeli Army says it has proof
the attack was carried out by another
Palestinian militant group Islamic Jihad
and that Israel is being unfairly blamed
to it was at the time at 6:59 p.m. when
there were reports of an explosion at
the alali AL mahani Hospital in Gaza
City according to our intelligence Hamas
checked the reports and stood it was an
Islamic Jihad
rocket that had misfired and decided to
launch a global media campaign to hide
what really
happened garans meanwhile are left to
pick up the pieces from the night
before knowing this conflict is far from
over uh the Israeli military says it has
confirmed that Islamic Jihad was
responsible for the hospital explosion
earlier I spoke to Israel Defense Forces
spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Peter
Lerner and asked him how IDF
investigators could be so sure so soon
after the
blast uh well we have uh in launched a
extensive highlevel investigation in the
immediate aftermath just uh after 7
o'clock yesterday to identify the root
causes of this tragedy and it is indeed
a human tragedy I can say that we um
mobilized intelligence capabilities
operational data and aerial footage of
Our Own in order to confirm and what we
found and what we established was that
there first of all was no active IDF
airport operations in that area the area
of alah Hospital not by air land or sea
we identified the the trajectory of the
rockets launched from adjacent to the
hospital towards Israel many of them
crossing over into Israel but one of
them ultimately falling inside the Gaza
trp on top of the uh uh in in the
parking lot of the hospital alah
hospital and finally we also our
intelligence
intercepted a conversation between two
Hamas terrorists that were discussing
the rocket that Palestinian Islamic
Jihad had launched and that it had
actually hit the alahi hospital so there
are three core compon that we see uh
that actually exemplify and and proof
that and our proof that uh uh we did not
do it you know and also when we're
looking in the aftermath of of this um
tragedy in the hospital we see that
there are no craters um uh the the the
damage is very limited not representive
of the type of strikes that we are
currently conducting against Hamas in
the Gaza Strip Lieutenant Colonel Peter
lner there from the Israeli Defense
Forces speaking to me earlier now Marina
Miron is a military expert from the
defense studies department at King's
College London and she told us who she
thinks is most likely responsible for
the blast well it is difficult to say
who is responsible um honestly I don't
know um these things can happen it could
have been collateral damage it could
have been a misfired rocket and unless
we have more evidence and that evidence
would include uh examination of the
launch site um verification of the
evidence provided so far there is no way
to tell uh who could have done it it and
we have seen that in Ukraine as well
where at first it seems very clear and
the attribution is very clear but then
later on investigations show something
else and there needs to be an
independent investigation because um
this is a catastrophe what has happened
and um those responsible need to be
identified in terms of strategy um who
benefits uh from this
incident well in terms of benefits um
let's look at uh first at the IDF and
definitely for them if if we were to
assume it was a premediation strike um
it would be very damaging in in
political terms and we're seeing the
Fallout being right now uh with
President Biden visiting the region and
now the meeting between um LCC and the
Jordanian counterpart and Mahmud abas
has been um cancelled due to this so for
Israel it would definitely be very very
damaging if it was collateral damage
then it is a different story and um now
looking at the other side for Hamas
again
um it it might be reasonable for one of
the groups operating in Gaza to conduct
the strike but then um the question is
what effect it has on the civilians and
what effect it has on the support of the
civilians because at the end of the day
also these groups rely on the Civil
population in Gaza so in the in in the
media space there would be some benefit
however in the long term um it would
have ramifications for the popularity of
these groups in in in that particular
area have these groups provided any
proof for their
claims well as of yet we don't have any
proof or any evidence the Palestinian
Islamic Jihad um denied the
allegations and this is the primary
suspect um as we have heard before so we
have only um partial evidence disclosed
by one side which needs verification um
and in order to increase Rel relability
of this assessment there needs to be
more evidence from multiple sources and
of course I can understand that for
military reasons it's also um difficult
to disclose all the evidence to the
Press so that is why I think that an
independent investigation should be made
and um I think here reason should be
taking the driver's seat because right
now we're all um emotionally taken by
this blast but um you need to get to the
core of the problem to see what exactly
happened there Marina [__] there from
the defense studies department at Kings
College London thank you very much
Marina
and Hamas has so far not allowed
independent investigators onto the
hospital premises I ask DW senior
International correspondent funny Fatar
in Tel Aviv how difficult it will be to
establish an unbiased account of exactly
what
happened very good question and I really
would like to stress that word
independent because that's what's really
difficult by the way in any war and in
any conflict same in this situation to
really establish what really has
happened in independently for one it's
impossible for international journalists
or any journalist in fact rather
domestically he from Israel
International journalist to verify those
facts on the ground and the journalists
that are inside Gaza Strip are pretty
much trapped themselves trying to make
sure they they they they protect their
families and and get to a safe harbor
which is pretty much impossible at this
point in Gaza Strip and since there's no
access at this point for independent uh
organizations or journalists that can
would independently verify what happened
we basically have two sides of the story
one the claim by Israel that it was
Islamic Jihad that militant group that
cooperates with the Hamas militants that
did it and we hear obviously from Gaza
Strip their claim that it was Israel in
the meantime obviously we have also
heard what US President Biden has said
he uh was a bit careful in expressing
his view by saying it appears he didn't
say it is he said it appears for that
was the other team hinting by by that
that it wasn't Israel but that a lot of
people obviously in the region are
unsure and this is exactly the Dilemma
uh that that also Israel is facing right
now as one of the key players here in in
this situation that regardless whether
their version of the story is true or
not and let's assume it may be true who
is going to believe them so this level
of trust that's being shaken very much
in the region is really bringing uh the
region to a boiling point right now and
it's just completely unclear regardless
what the facts are revolving this
particular incident what the
consequences are going to be from here
on now fny just 24 hours ago it looked
like a diplomatic window was opening to
end the fighting has that window now
closed diplomacy is always ongoing in in
politics even if it appears that 24
hours later now everything seems to be
uh completely uh going out of control
one has to underline that even though US
President Biden is not going going to
meet in person now the head of the
Palestinian Authority Mr Abbas or the
heads of of of Jordan and Egypt in Aman
which was scheduled to take place
tomorrow he did uh reiterate that he is
in close touch with all leaders here all
the stakeholders here making sure that
there is no further escalation that the
conflict is not widening but this is
exactly the question the pure message
that may be sent to the World by the
fact that President Biden was only be
able to talk to Israel's prime minister
netan but what's really the message here
uh to the region observers do underline
however that if there is any possible
Breakthrough by the US putting uh uh
some influence uh there on on Israel
some breakthrough and trying to deliver
Aid to uh people in Gaza Strip making
sure that that uh closed rougher border
crossing reopens and and it can get
through that this may uh uh result in
some sort of a deescalation also it may
be possible that they can somehow
influence that this expected ground
offensive may not be as big as maybe it
has been planned after all it's been
delayed now for for many days uh since
it was in initially talked about a lot
of question marks therefore and it's
just unclear how things are going to go
on and exactly what the impact of US
President Biden's visit is going to have
here in Israel and in the region as a
whole DW senior International
correspondent F in telev for us thank
you
funny the Carnage at the Gaza Hospital
has inflamed emotions in many parts of
the world protests erupted across the
Middle East and world leaders are
calling for
accountability there's World Fury over
the explosion at the AL early Arab
Hospital in
gazam protests are taking place in
Libya
Yemen and Iran among
[Music]
others our demands are addressed to AR
leaders not to the West we don't want
half Solutions or half speeches like we
condemn we denounce we are asking them
to break off relations with the Zionist
enemy the Palestinian people did not
commit a crime they don't want anything
it's their
home islamist militant group Hamas
claims the hospital was hit by an
Israeli air strike Israel says it did
not carry out an attack on the hospital
it says a rocket it was misfired by
another Palestinian group Islamic
Jihad a claim that is Now supported by
US President Joe Biden he is currently
in
Israel the point is this that uh um I
was deeply saddened and outraged by the
U explosion of the hospital in gazi
yesterday based on what I've seen in the
appear of well it was done by the other
team not not you UST solution as the
blame game goes on leaders around the
world are condemning the blast I am
horrified by the hundreds of people
killed at alh hospital this same day in
Gaza by a strike that I strongly
condemned earlier
today I call for an immediate
humanitarian
ceasefire there is no excuse for hitting
a hospital full of
civilians all facts need to be
established and those responsible must
be held
accountable in this tragic hour we must
all redouble our efforts to protect
civilians from the fury of this
war many people around the world want
those civilians to be protected the
hospital blast is also spurring
demonstrations far from the Middle East
including in the United States in
Colombia and in the
Philippines
now let's get more on the reactions to
this blast with Amal dib from DW Arabic
Amal we we've seen protests around the
world after this uh Hospital blast
especially of course in Arab countries
where would you say their anger is
directed since last night we've seen uh
popular reactions from across the Arab
world multiple uh capitals have
witnessed uh an outrage um of people
taking on the streets carrying the
Palestinian flag so that that should
tell us who of course they're supporting
and who they're blaming they're blaming
Israel for the blast they're holding it
responsible not only for the blast but
for what's been happening in Gaza for
the past um 12 days but also they're
taking on um the Western countries in
Lebanon we've seen protests in front of
the American Embassy and also the French
Embassy and that that tells us a lot
about how the um um Arab population
views the Western support to Israel and
the incre as as the violence keeps on
increasing in Gaza uh now we have
predictably seen a lot of criticism of
Israel of course uh was any criticism
leveled at Hamas since the beginning um
of the latest round of violence we have
seen some AR Arab countries condemn the
violence against civilians on both sides
namely from Egypt from uh UAE from other
countries uh they've been vocal about
sparing civilians on both sides uh of
the conflict
uh blame blaming Hamas directly has not
been uh the case in the Arab world and
that is for various reasons related to
uh the Palestinian population that lives
in a lot of these uh Arab countries and
the support uh they give to that the
Palestinian cause and the the many
across the Arab world are afraid now
about the fate of gazans and the people
of Gaza am made this uh blockage and the
continued uh routs of violence now you
touched upon this Israel Israel's
neighbors have um emphatically refused
to take in Palestinian refugees why is
that two reasons the first reason is a
political one Egypt and Jordan the two
neighboring countries that could
potentially take on U Palestinians
Palestinian refugees have a history of
Hosting Palestinian refugees uh their
political stance is that taking in more
refugees from Gaza will mean the end of
what they call the Palestinian cause and
will kind of liquidate and their own
words the Palestinian case and will end
the two-state solution that many
countries including the US uh have
called for the second reason is the
security one uh the Egyptian president
has been very vocal in talking about how
moving uh gazans or any Palestinians
toward uh the sa desert will take
hamas's problem into Egypt and will
create will threaten the relationship
between Egypt and Israel and will
particularly drag Egypt into the armed
conflict now what kind of Aid can the
other countries the neighboring
countries uh like Jordan and Egypt
provide they have been uh sending Aid uh
to the to neighboring Egypt uh Egypt has
prepared uh lots of Aid uh also Jordan
also the UAE uh and Qatar have sent
convoys of Aid waiting to enter Gaza uh
but as a result of the crossing of the
closure of the RAF Crossing which until
the moment has there hasn't been any
political decision to open it up the aid
awaits there and the question remains
whether the aid will enter in time to
help the people uh of Gaza Amal di there
from DW's Arabic service thank you very
much